I'm Barry Rholtz. You're listening to
Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio.
My extra special guest today is Jean
Eric Salada. He is chair of the EQT
group. Uh uh the largest alternative
manager uh outside of the US. They
manage over $316
billion. [music] Previously, he helped
set up uh the Bearings Private Equity
Asia Group and built it into one of
Asia's premier private equity platforms.
[music]
With no further ado,
>> John Eric Salado, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thank you, Barry. It's great to be here.
>> It's great to have you. I'm I've been
looking forward to this conversation for
a while. Be before we get to EQT, you've
a really interesting background and I
want to dive into that a little bit.
>> Um,
you grow up in Chile. You go to the
Wharton School at University of Penn to
get a uh bachelor's in finance and
economics. Was investing always the
career plan?
>> Well, I yes uh investing was always the
career plan. That's not how I ended up
in Asia. But the the idea in going to
Wharton and becoming an investor was
something I always wanted to do since I
was a young boy. I remember reading a
lot of biographies when I was a kid of
business people and being very intrigued
by that. I remember having my first
paper delivery route when I was like 10
or 11 years old and really enjoying the
idea of making money and then actually
started investing that money as a young
kid in the stock market as well and kind
of understanding how that worked. And
then when I ended up at Wharton
undergraduate and and studying finance
and management, I got very intrigued
with uh with global business uh outside
the US. Uh I I come from an
international background. My my family,
we grew up in in in South America. My
grandparents actually came from Eastern
Europe and uh were sort of refugees that
ended up in South America. So generation
to generation, we've been moving around
quite a bit. And I always felt like I
had a quite a different perspective on
life and the world and a lot of the
people I was at school with. And so I
was interested in pursuing that. And um
and by as luck would have it or fate
would have it, I I ended up meeting uh
my girlfriend at the time who's now my
wife who's from Hong Kong. And I ended
up moving there right after I graduated
a year after I graduated from college
and ended up really building my career
in Asia as a result of that. And
>> and that was Hong Kong before the
handover. Yeah. So Chile, Hong Kong, you
start at Bane as a consultant, end up
everywhere from Sydney to Boston and
then back to Hong Kong. Tell us a little
bit about that global experience. How
has that changed how you look at the
world of investing?
>> Yeah, I I sort of have always felt a
little bit like an outsider in the way I
look at things. I never felt like I was
exactly part of the community or this
the sort of the the the consensus view
of things. I was always thinking about
things a little bit more differently I
guess given the background. I was always
comparing things was when I was growing
up in the US I was always comparing
things in the US to the way things were
in Chile and saying oh this is different
or that's different. Then when I moved
to Hong Kong I had the same perspective.
I was thinking, "Wow, there's a lot that
I see happening. All my friends working
on Wall Street or in private equity
firms in in the late 80s, early 90s
that's not yet happening here in Hong
Kong." There felt like there was a gap.
It felt like there was a gap there. And
that always intrigued me and got me
motivated and interested in thinking
about starting something new that would
sort of try to take advantage of it or
take advantage of that opportunity
created by that gap of what's eventually
maybe coming to Asia that's already
happening in the US. And that's sort of
what led me to eventually leave
consulting, get into private equity um
in the early 90s uh which was really
very early uh in Asia in an Asian
context in in the private equity
industry uh and from there sort of to
start building the business.
>> So So you leave Bane was the next stop
AIG global investment their their did
you help set up their PE arm or was that
already up and running? No, that was
that AIG was essentially uh an insurance
business. AIG. Some of your listeners
might recall Hank Greenberg who sort of
a legend uh who really kind of started
he actually didn't start that business
but was the really the founder that grew
the business beyond the founder CV
Star's initial starting of the business
in in Shanghai of all places and that
became a large global insurance company
and in those days in Asia there really
wasn't a private equity industry but
there were insurance companies like AIG
that had longdated liabilities and they
needed to find longdated assets and so
you had stock market and fixed income
and so on. But in the private markets,
there was wasn't really a fund to invest
in per se. So they started making their
own investments off their balance sheet
into companies to match their longdated
liabilities. And so it was really
working for AIG in their internal
private equity group that got me started
in the industry.
>> Foundational experience at AIG. That's
really in private equity. That's a
sentence you don't hear that often.
>> Yeah, it was. It was early days. It was
it was interesting because um you know
the the whole region was really starting
to boom. uh it was the golden period of
globalization
you know with the emergence of not just
China but Southeast Asia, Thailand,
Indonesia, Taiwan, Korea all these
markets were starting to really develop
and industrialize and there was a lot of
requirement for capital for growth and
so we were really growth investors in
those days putting money to work behind
companies and helping them to grow. And
then you move from investor to operator.
You you as executive vice president, you
run finance for Shuing Steel. That's a
giant Hong Kong industrial. What What
was that experience like?
>> Yeah, that actually that happened before
I left to do the private equity. So it
was Bane, then Shuing, and then um and
then AIG. the shoeing experience. It's
uh it's a part of my background that um
is a little bit different because it's
really it's a family business that um is
is an industrial company very
traditionally run. It's actually my
wife's family business. So yeah, it's
it's really uh it was a very different
experience. So I went from
>> I can imagine [laughter]
>> yes I went I went from baiting company
you know sort of business school type
button down button down you know
everybody has similar backgrounds very
analytical
>> to the opposite end of the spectrum
which is it's it's a family business
everybody who's in management is related
to each other and then uh you know
you're making decisions based on u sort
of traditional ways of doing things
>> but this isn't a small little family dry
cleaner this is
>> it's a big
a giant conglomerate. It was a sizable
business and uh it was it was a good
experience for me because it sort of
helped me shape in the very formative
years of my career an appreciation for
both sides of the spectrum. On the one
hand, you have the need to be
analytical, rigorous, understand global
trends and sort of the way you look at
things as a business school student. On
the other hand, if you're going to do
business in Asia, you have to be a
little bit more entrepreneurial. You
have to listen to your instinct. You
have to be able to develop relationships
with people. uh because ultimately the
decision makers in in that part of the
world a lot of them have those sorts of
backgrounds and so you need to be able
to understand how they think and so that
was a very valuable experience during my
formative years but I kind of came to
the view that I didn't really um want to
spend the rest of my career in that sort
of a setup and so I applied to business
school and I got into business school uh
I got into Harvard Business School
actually and I was about to start at
Harvard um I literally was there uh
registered. I'm actually in the picture
book ready to go. And that's when I got
the job offer to come back and work for
um for this private equity uh division
of AIG, which I decided uh ultimately
that's really what I wanted to do rather
than go back to school again having gone
to undergraduate for a business degree
already.
>> And so I decided to defer my business
school uh go back to work uh in Asia in
private equity and ultimately I actually
never ended up really coming back to
school. So after AIG, you helped launch
a regional Asian private equity program
for Bearing Private Equity Partners, a
UK- based bank, right? Do I have the
timeline right? Yeah. So I'm fascinated.
1997,
>> what was the investment landscape in
Asia like in the in the '9s? Was that a
very underappreciated
set of opportunities or had people
started to sniff out hey this area is
going to be booming?
>> It was a very very un volatile period
actually if you recall what was going on
at the time. So two things happened in
1995.
Nick Leon this is just around the time
that I was joining bearing private
equity. Nick Leon, who is a name that
some of your listeners may may
recognize, others may not.
>> He brought down this 300-year-old
>> broke bearings bank.
>> He broke the bank uh out of Singapore
actually trading Japanese stock futures
and kind of covering up his losses which
eventually brought the whole bank down.
It was a you know 300 year old bank and
uh one of the most prominent firms. So
what ended up happening is that um the
Dutch firm ING took over bearings
famously for one pound and assumed all
their liabilities and they they took it
over. This was around the time that I
had joined. And you know at the time I
remember thinking this is very
unsettling. This is you know I don't
know what I'm going to do. I was very
worried. I just decided to leave uh AIG
and join this new this new company
varing private equity. In hindsight,
sitting here today, I can tell you it's
probably one of the the best things that
ever happened to me was to be able to
step into a situation that was going
through a lot of change. And I think it
is an important lesson in life actually
that there there are these times when
you go through there's serendipity
number one. the luck. There's also the
fact that you're often thrust into
situations you don't expect and it kind
of boils down to how you end up
responding to them and looking for the
best possible outcomes or the the best
way out of a situation can sometimes
lead to huge opportunities which is what
happened here because that confusion of
the takeover by ING of Bearings resulted
in Bearings essentially figuring that
they didn't need to have some of these
non-core businesses and so I approached
the new Dutch owners and and asked them
if it was okay if we spun our business
out at the time, which we did. Um, it
was a very small business. It was a 25
we had $25 million of assets under
management uh which even in those days
was not a lot of money [laughter] and uh
we were we were really just getting
started and they agreed and so we ended
up establishing an independent small
private equity business called Bearing
Private Equity Asia.
>> So kept the name.
>> We kept the name BPA.
>> Yeah. Um
there was this tremendous transition
from what was essentially a startup to
what eventually became a pretty
substantial institution.
>> What was that like?
>> Um initially we we were starting off and
again it was 19979697.
So if you recall 1997 was actually the
Asian financial crisis as it referred to
>> which was a terrible period of um huge
currency devaluations.
uh starting with the ruble in Russia but
then sort of a contagion effect
throughout
>> the ruble was worse the following year
with long-term capital management if my
memory is is so the Asian contagion was
the Thai bot crisis bot it was the uh
Indonesian sort of uh you know high
yield market as well that blew up people
were basically borrowing dollars because
it was cheaper to do so using that money
to then invest in their businesses in
Asia thinking that they could make the
spread and and and kind of capture that
>> as long as the currency stays stable
which was okay, but then it's it isn't
until it isn't, right? So, that's what
happened. And uh and so that blew out
and it caused a tremendous financial
crisis across the whole region.
>> Um and this is in the middle of when we
were getting started. So, I remember
we're writing the first PPM, the first
private placement memo to go raise
capital. And the whole story was uh in
96 was about growth in Asia, the growth
story. And halfway through the writing
the PPM, we had to basically change the
the PPM and change the strategy to
become more of a distress strategy on
how we're going to capitalize on the
dislocation in Asia to invest in great
companies that have bad balance sheets,
which is sort of what we did with that
first 25 million that we started with
because what happened was that ING gave
us that seed capital to get going with,
which was the 25 million. They were
supposed to give us 300, but it ended up
not coming [laughter] through. So, we
started with 25. Why? Why is it that the
indications of interest and the actual
cash there's such a multiple between the
two?
>> What happened in my case is that there
was supposed to be three of us that were
coming across to start the business.
There was two very senior guys from AIG
actually that were poached by bearings
to start their business for them in
Asia. And they asked me the the young
kid who was doing all the number
crunching to join them to do the the
actual work. And I said, I'd be
delighted to because it's such an
exciting entrepreneurial opportunity.
You know, here I am a young junior
analyst and I get a chance to be
potentially a partner in this startup.
So I thought I raised my hand. As we
were about to get started, the two
senior guys got a counter offer from
Hank Greenberg who called them up and
say, "Hey, you guys are too important.
We want you to stay. Here's all this
money and equity and that you know to
convince you to stay." But he didn't
make me a counter offer. He just cut me
loose. So those guys accepted the
counter offer. I was there left on my
own and I went back to the ING folks and
I said, "Here I am. I'm ready to do
this." They said, "Well, you're a little
young and inexperienced. It's not what
we're expecting. We're going to slash
the capital that we commit to this from
300 to 25,
>> less than 10%." And
>> I said I said, "That's good enough for
me." I said, "I'll take that. That's
that sounds good." So we started with 25
and we did five deals of 5 million each.
And it turned out that because of the
cycle where we were, we were we were
lucky to be able to buy in at good
prices and we bought some interesting
businesses.
>> Huh.
>> That that sounds really
>> that got us started basically.
>> Yeah, that sounds really really quite
fascinating. So BPA was in China, India,
Southeast Asia, Japan, Korea.
>> Here's the thing that I'm fascinated.
Okay, so maybe New York is different
than Florida is different than Texas is
different than California, but we all
speak the same language more or less.
It's the same laws. It's the same
regulatory structure. When you're
working throughout Asia,
there's a different legal system.
There's a different cultural dynamic
there, different political dynamics. How
do you build relationships? How do you
build a knowledge base and navigate
like is from a an American perspective
are those countries more similar than we
imagine or am I teeing this up
correctly? Each one is its own
independent unique region. You're
absolutely right about that and that
actually is is the key I think to what
we've been able to achieve over three
decades was that overcoming th those
barriers because ultimately
people think of Asia they call it Asia
but it's it's really a very first of all
geographic is a huge huge expanse of you
know from Tokyo to Sydney it's like a
12-h hour flight you know and and from
uh you know from from even from Hong
Kong all the way to India it's still a
pretty long distance and culturally uh
you're talking about a a very
significant um difference in in in the
local culture, the local the language,
the ways of doing business. So what what
we did initially was you know and we
were actually criticized for this in the
early days because in those days people
just did single country funds for that
very reason. You had a China fund, you
had you know you had a sort of Japan
fund, a Korea fund and what we set out
to do was to say okay we're going to
create a regional investment program.
People looked at me and said, "What do
you know about investing in Japan or
like what do you know about India?
You're not even from Asia." And so what
I early on appreciated and this has been
an important lesson in my career is that
actually being a good investor is is a
is is very important for for what we do
in in our industry. But if you want to
build a company, which was always my
ambition, if you want to build a
business out of it, you need to actually
build a team, not just be a good
investor. Being a good investor is kind
of prerequisite to be in our industry.
But beyond that, it's really about
building a team. And so I was lucky
enough to meet and to and to to bring on
board some great partners early on. Uh
very diverse backgrounds. So you know we
have people even to this day and in
those days from each of these markets.
So you know we had great partners from
China, from Taiwan on our team that we
hired early on. We had a very good team
in India on the ground in Mumbai. We
call it now local with locals where you
have local teams in each market. In
2005, we opened up an office in Japan.
We hired a great team in Japan of great
people there. As we're building the
team, a you needed to have people from
those markets that understood those
markets. But the next question is how do
you stitch it all together? You know,
how do you create that common thread?
And that comes down to culture and and
building a culture of like-minded
people. And so I started to really also
gain a huge appreciation for the
importance of culture in a business. And
and that's something by the way that EQT
has um I think really excelled in
globally. And one of the reasons I was
ultimately attracted to EQT and in
combining our business with EQT four or
five years ago was that Connie Johnson,
the founder of EQT early on with the
Wallenberg's backing um realized that um
culture ultimately drives performance in
in in an investment organization like
ours. So built an organization with
tremendous culture and our culture was
actually somewhat similar. So we were
able to bring the two cultures together
and the cultural fit ended up being what
what made that merger so successful. But
going back to you know building the Asia
business building the team on the ground
building the common culture and then it
was sort of how do we institutionalize
this instead of just doing deals here
doing deals there how do we create a
unified systematic approach and this is
where my bane days sort of came in of
thinking let's come up with some
constructs about how we think about
capital allocation how we think about
diversification how do we think about
macro how do we think about sector
trends how do we think about our
investment committee process how do we
drive due diligence systematic take due
diligence in every market so we have
quality control in each market. It's not
just random deal makers doing things the
way that they want to do them on the
ground. And so pulling all that together
which you know it took a lot of time. Am
I making it I'm shortening it here but
you know there was a lot of ups and
downs a lot of mistakes a lot of
setbacks uh but eventually we got there
and refined our strategy over the years
and we created something that's actually
quite hard to replicate which is this
regional platform delivering consistent
outcomes with a great team of consistent
sort of of people that have been with us
a long time and that have a similar
approach to underwriting um and and
ultimately great performance and so all
that you know going from 25 million
where we ended up by the time we did the
deal with EQT we had 25 billion under
management over the spans of of what was
25 years of uh of building the business.
>> So, so let's talk a little bit about how
this all came about. 2022 you merged BPA
with EQT that was a 7 billion deal. Um
that followed about 25 years of
independence. what what led to that
decision to merge? What could EQT offer
that BPA couldn't build on its own?
Yeah, I I think what I started to sense
in about say 2015 was that the industry
was changing. Our our industry was
changing globally. You started to see
global firms moving into Asia. You
started to see um some firms starting to
go public. you started to see
multi-product firms developing beyond
just a single product, single asset
class scale. Um, and I realized that
although we were doing very well and
we're very successful in growing, um, if
we wanted to make this a
multigenerational
uh, business that's going to continue to
thrive, uh, we wanted to be part of this
industry consolidation, this this trend
towards scale rather than to be um, sort
of uh, you know, pushed aside by it. And
that's when I started thinking what are
our options. I mean one option was for
us to try to expand beyond Asia and to
develop our business outside of the
region. That was going to be pretty
difficult at this stage because the
businesses becoming so um large and and
and entrenched globally. uh and then I
started looking at at at ways of uh of
of working with others and that's when I
met EQT uh really through their own IPO
that they had done at the time uh re
they had gone public in 2018 2019 and I
was curious about that and I so I went
to speak to them about how they had done
that and um we started talking and uh
you know one thing led to another and by
the end of this conversation it became
evident to all of us sitting around the
table that actually there's something
here that could be quite powerful if we
were to come bring the businesses
together.
>> You you mentioned earlier how important
culture is to performance in an
investment world. I would imagine that a
Swedish firm like EQT and essentially uh
a regional Asian firm like BPA,
you would imagine those are very
different cultures and there's going to
be a challenge integrating
the two of them. What was your
experience like trying to get all the
horses pulling in the same direction?
>> Yeah, I think all initially you you
could imagine that would be the case,
but as it turns out, I think a few
things here. First of all, EQT started
off as a Swedish firm. But it really by
the time we met had already become a
much more global business. So, first
Swedish, then European, uh, expanding
into Europe and then expanding into the
US. Had some presence in Asia, not much.
Secondly, EQT is backed by the
Wallenberg family. The Wallenberg family
is a sixth generation family uh from
Sweden that has a history of really
doing business globally uh investors in
Ericson, Electrolux, Saab, um many of
the big Swedish companies, Astroenica
are backed by the Wallenberg family and
so they have a very global mindset I
would say in the way they think about
doing business globally and culturally.
uh then I think the other aspect here is
there's a difference I think between a
European firm like EQT and say American
firms. The European firms already are
thinking in terms of well every country
is different. You've got um you know the
the Nordics are different than Germany
which is different than France which is
different than Southern Europe. And so
when they come to Asia they have I think
an an heightened sense of appreciation
for the diff cultural differences within
Asia. And you know I think I think that
to me was really important that they
understand that within Asia Japan is
very different from India and India is
very different from China. And so I felt
almost like there was a kindred spirit
there and understanding that each
country each region the cultures really
matter. Then I would say that uh if you
look at the histories of the firm we're
both about 30 years old at the time. We
both had our ups and downs. We both kind
of built the business from a founder of
Connie and myself. And you know I think
there was a lot of um common history
shared history there. Uh and ultimately
it boy boiled down to the I'd say the
chemistry uh of the senior teams but
then ultimately the culture throughout
and I felt very comfortable with it and
we did some spent some time together
meeting with the team members meeting
with each other uh and we ended up
feeling like this was going to be a
great fit. still taking a chance and
coming and bringing the business
together. But having done it now, having
been together now for nearly four years,
I can tell you it's been a huge success
and it really boils down to the fact
that the people, the cultural fit um was
was very strong. Maybe a good time to
talk about the values also of of EQT,
which are similar to the values we had
at Bearing Private Equity at the time.
You know, there's some key values that
EQT has. Number one, it's high
performing, which is, you know,
something that I think most people in
industry are going to focus on. But
beyond that, it's also we focus a lot on
on on transparency. We focus on being
informal. We focus on being
entrepreneurial and we have another
fifth value which is respectful. And if
you take all those as a package, you
know what you start to sense is the sort
of people that end up coming to EQT,
staying at EQT, it's not the typical
dealmaker kind of Wall Street type of
dealmaker that you get um in in in some
uh some of our parts of our industry.
And I think that really appealed to the
kind of makeup of our firm at the time,
you know, having that really informal um
interaction with people. That's a little
bit of a Nordic trait. I would say that
this lack of hierarchy, this um you take
a look at Connie, he's the founder of
the firm. Um he's [snorts] really opened
up the ownership of the firm early to
all the partners of the firm. The fact
that he was even open to combining with
my my old business and in in a sense
diluting even further on a fairly large
transaction that you as you mentioned,
you know, that speaks to this kind of
expansive view of we're trying to build
an institution here. It's not about any
one individual. It's not about sort of
creating a legacy of any one individual.
It's about creating a business that's
going to last. So that that sort of
mindset I think really appealed to me
and felt like the kind of place that was
a good home for the company that we had
built as a as a partnership prior to
that. Hm. Really really interesting.
Let's talk a little bit about how the
capital is invested. 65% of EQT's
capital is in Europe and Asia. Uh how do
you think about geographic
diversification? It's always a
challenge.
>> Mhm. I think diversification is becoming
more and more top of mind for global
investors, particularly when we talk to
our institutional investors. um even in
the private wealth channels, you're
starting to get a sense that people feel
overly concentrated, overextended maybe
in in US assets. Not to say that US
assets are not attractive or that they
don't have great prospects, which they
do, but um you know, having 85 90% of
your assets tied into a market that's
already highly concentrated is becoming
a little bit um uneasy for people. So
what we're sensing with our clients uh
is a desire to get exposure to more
global markets and what EK where where
we're strong is we have twothirds of our
businesses outside of the US. Uh we're
very strong in Europe. We're very strong
in Asia. Um within those markets we are
also um you know exposed to some of the
best sectors. We have a very thematic
approach. We invest in healthcare. We
invest in technology. Actually, we just
announced yesterday um I don't know when
this is airing, but we just announced
yesterday that we've been awarded the
scale up Europe fund mandate by the
European Commission, which is a uh a
huge deal. Uh they uh decided to award
EQT the management of a what's going to
be a $5 billion fund that will invest in
in early stage technology ventures
across Europe to help them to scale up.
Uh so kind of series B onwards in areas
like quantum computing, AI, life
sciences, um AI infrastructure,
industrial uh technology, really taking
the innovation that exists in Europe and
scaling it up to compete globally at the
global scale with some of the innovation
you see in the United States and and in
China. Uh so you know we have exposure
to some of these really interesting
parts of the global investment landscape
and that's very additive to what
investors typically would have and their
exposure in a their traditional
portfolio would be much more heavily
weighted towards the US and this is a
way to get a little bit broader global
diversification in that sense
>> really kind of interesting when when we
look at the performance of various
markets really going back to the great
financial crisis it feels like Asia and
Europe has very much lag the US up until
a year or two ago.
>> Exactly.
>> I'm curious how you look at some of the
macro tailwinds that uh Asia is
certainly enjoying and as we see a shift
towards China in in many many ways uh
especially leadership and how do you see
Europe is some tailwinds to some
headwinds they seem to be a little more
complex in trying to figure out what
what direction they're heading. Yeah, I
think what we're starting to see
globally right now is this this this
capital ex capex super cycle that is
playing out with AI infrastructure but
not just AI infrastructure. It also
feeds into the re-industrialization
uh focus on capex for
re-industrialization.
>> Re-industrialization
meaning explain what that means. meaning
sort of the the investing back into more
of the industrial base of say the United
States or Europe away from just
outsourcing all of that. And so this
this re-industrialization the AI capex
infrastructure plus the um you know the
whole power energy transition that's
going on with electrification this is
resulting in much more capital intensive
uh investment than we've ever seen
before. I mean, the sort of numbers that
people are throwing around are just
unprecedented. Within our lifetimes,
we've never it's historical the levels
of investment that we're seeing, you
know, and that has knock-on effects. The
knock-on effects are throughout the
whole supply chain. A lot of the supply
chain actually feeds back into Europe.
It feeds back into Asia certainly. And
so this kind of global supply chain of
capital expenditures is creating new
investment opportunities and demand for
capital that we haven't like we have
never seen before in terms of the
quantum of of money that's required to
to make this investment play out. So
these sort of broadening that exposure
across the regions is is where we see
opportunity. Um if I look at the world
today you know the AI infrastructure
opportunity globally is probably the
single biggest most interesting
investment opportunity for us. It means
investing in a couple of key areas. One
is in the compute or data center space.
We have one of the largest data center
businesses in the world called Edge
Connects. It's active both in the US but
also in Europe and now increasingly in
Asia. We have a joint venture in India
for example with the Adani group in Edge
Connects and that that data center
business has over 90 data centers. Um
it's increased in value. We've owned it
now for six seven years. I think it's
increased by 20x in terms of the total
um installed capacity of the business.
Uh we have um in addition to that we
take kind of an endto-end solutions
approach. So we have the compute but we
also have about a hundred billion
dollars of investment into energy. So
the energ the whole energy grid um you
know power generation and grid and
storage. This is a really important part
of the the the comprehensive solution
that you need to drive AI compute. So,
we've got the energy, we've got the
compute,
um we're also investing um in the
digital infrastructure to connect it all
the digital connectivity of all of this.
And and so if you tie that all together,
our infrastructure business is really
riding some of these global tailwinds,
not just in the US, but really doing
this globally. Then in addition to that,
I'd say the other thing that's pretty
interesting if you take a sort of non-
US lens at the world is what's happening
in Japan. And there uh the Japanese
buyout market is is really on a tear. Uh
it's um it's being driven primarily by
some corporate reforms around
shareholder reforms and activist
shareholder uh increasing activism,
shareholder activism uh which is
supported actually by the Japanese
government to improve corporate
governance. Essentially that's creating
opportunities to really focus on
shareholder value and to um result in a
lot more deal flow. the number of
transactions that we've seen um have
it's this year alone it's up 60% year-to
date. The total number of activist
shareholder campaigns has doubled in the
last few years 50 to over 100 a year uh
on the back of some of these reforms.
>> So you're seeing a a whole new um market
kind of developing there for for
Japanese buyouts which um is very
uncorrelated and very complimentary to
the traditional buyout opportunities
that exist in the United States. And
then together with the AI infrastructure
opportunity which is more global there's
just a lot happening in our ecosystem
which we see as being very additive very
complimentary to just the traditional
bread and butter of US exposure to
private equity or US infrastructure.
>> So I have so many questions to go from
>> sorry maybe just one last point on that
which is that you as you started the
question off by the outperformance of
the market. So what ended up happening
last year as you pointed out is that the
you know the stock markets if you look
at listed markets as a proxy uh the S&P
500 did pretty well was up sort of 18%
or something versus 33
>> but everything else you know in Asia was
up much more than that as it turned out
amazing
>> who would have guessed you know Korea's
up 60% last year and u Hong Kong was up
Japan was up in the 30s and um you had
um even Europe uh stock markets did
better than uh than the US last year. So
the idea that having all your pension,
all your retirement money in one market,
it's worked pretty well for the time
being, but the idea of the correlation
and concentration and you know, markets
don't always go up, they go down as
well. Um I think the old diversification
strategies uh do play a role in
long-term asset allocation and that's
where EQ I think has has something
>> I have so many questions about Europe
and Japan and Korea and other areas but
I I have to come back to China for a
moment which for the better part of the
past two or three decades has been the
center of Asia feels like the
geopolitics the regulatory environment
everything has shifted fairly
dramatically.
How do you look at China? Are they
still, you know, the 800 pound gorilla
or are there enough offsetting
uh economies that are really growing and
and seeing gains in their markets that
it's not all about China the way it once
was 10 20 years ago?
the the world is geopolitically is
becoming more polarized and and maybe
creating more silos in certain strategic
areas like technology um and defense um
uh as you know as as as the the winds
have shifted that's just the reality of
the world that we're living in. Having
said that, I do think that there's still
this underlying ecosystem of
interdependence
um and you know a desire I think to work
together I hope um in areas like for
example in medicine um you know if you
look at the bioarma the the biotech
industry there's a lot going on right
now between China and the US um a lot of
the early stage trials that are being
done uh many of those are getting
acquired by US pharmaceutical companies
and then being rolled out for the
benefit of humanity all all over the
world. Uh and these are areas where
there's scope I think for cooperation
and I think everyone can benefit from
that. Um there are areas that are much
more sensitive when it comes to
technology and chips and semiconductors.
Uh but even there I would say that it's
important for all investors, for all
business investors, for governments, for
policy makers to at least understand
what's happening in China. um because I
think it's it's it's relevant you know
it has an impact on on on global um
outlook uh you know you look at EVs you
look at the solar industry um you look
at what's happening in battery storage
uh you know having access to that sort
of knowhow ultimately is going to be
important for everyone how you do that
in a way that protects your national
interest is is a topic of the day for
policy makers globally in the US and
Europe and I think people are looking at
that differently than they used to in
terms of how much they're willing to
outsource versus how much they want to
do themselves. I mean this scale up
Europe fund that I just mentioned is
also uh a policy response to wanting to
create homegrown innovation and scale
homegrown innovation which makes sense
the way the US wants to do that and the
way that China wants to do that. Um I
think that the Chinese uh economy it's
truly impressive what's happening there
in terms of innovation. uh the way the
economy is growing and and the the
amount of R&D if you look at the patents
being filed the the level of innovation
how the innovation is being
commercialized uh but at the same time
there's some very exciting things
happening in Europe and in the United
States obviously the US is also leading
in many ways when it comes to AI um one
of the things to keep an eye on by the
way is the cost of compute differential
between the US and China um there's a
there there is a a a big difference
there in how compute is generated and
ultimately the cost of that compute per
token to the users which is going to
become more of a focus I think going
forward than it has been up until now
where it's kind of been viewed as a
must-have almost free available to all
employees there will be more a focus on
ROI and I think this is where um you
know people are going to start looking
at the competitive position of cost of
compute in different markets versus
what's happening in the US
>> last question of EQT before we start
talking a little more about the
environment out there today. How do
investors in EQT
um manage their exposure? Are they
putting money into one fund
>> that has a little bit of everything or
do people get very granular or a little
bit of both?
>> We have 30 different strategies at EQT
um across four different areas uh
private equity, infrastructure, real
estate and secondaries. Secondaries is
our newest area that we've just
announced that we've acquired caller
capital hasn't closed yet but we're in
the process of bringing that on board.
>> So we have 30 different strategies. Um I
think we have both. We have the draw
down funds which are the main
institutional vehicles for committing
traditionally as you would to a fund and
invest in buyouts or in in growth
capital or in life sciences or in real
estate. But increasingly and this is uh
the higher highest growth part of our
business and for the industry as a
whole. We have the um open-ended
structures. Some people call them
evergreens. We don't call them
semi-liquids because they're not liquid.
They're not even semi-liquid, but they
are open-ended. Uh and it what
open-ended means is that you can you can
subscribe to them every month. Uh and
you can redeem every quarter subject to
um you know the underlying liquidity
availability in the in the quarter. And
the uh you know what we're starting to
see is there a couple advantages of of
the evergreen or open-ended structures.
Number one, they do invest across
everything. So you don't have to choose
which funds you want to invest and you
get a broad exposure. Number two, they
invest 100% of your money immediately
into the asset class. So we're starting
to see institutional investors also use
this, not just the private clients that
use this because they are able to dial
up and dial down their exposure
instantly. So if you if you want to have
a certain percent of your portfolio in
private markets rather than waiting for
the capital to be called over the next
two three years you can just put it to
work immediately into the asset class
through these evergreen structures which
are fully invested on an NAV basis
immediately. So that's that's one of the
interesting aspects of that. The other
interesting aspect of our evergreen
structures or open-ended structures is
unlike some of the other uh products out
there which have designated investment
strategies or investment teams for those
open-ended structures. Our open-ended
structure is essentially a like forlike
paru alongside everything we do. You get
exactly the same exposure to exactly the
same deals and the same pricing and the
same everything that we provide to our
sovereign wealth fund clients that we
provide to our institutional clients.
it's all allocated across equally. So
there's no cherrypicking. There's no
sort of different strategies for the
wealth vehicle as there is for the
institutional vehicle. It's a single
vehicle. And then I think the other key
aspect of our investment program which
is sort of where why we've landed where
we've landed in terms of our fundraising
last year. We've you know for example
we've just announced our closing of our
Asia fund which is a $15 billion fund.
It's the largest fund ever raised in
Asia$5.6 billion. The reason we've been
able to achieve this is because of our
exits and liquidity uh profile of our
investment program. It's been a tough
environment for exit and liquidity. It's
one of the challenges that you read a
lot about in our industry. We actually
had a record year for exits last year at
EQT.
>> 40 $40 billion billion. We had $40
billion in distributions.
>> Um and that's huge. It's huge. It's a
it's about
>> more than 10% of of total invested
dollars. That's tremendous. It's
actually about 30% of the NAV of the
strategies that uh that that covers
>> and uh if you look at active funds
>> and if you um if you look at the
liquidity profile there it even included
a significant amount of tapping into the
equity capital markets the public
markets.
>> So we were actually the number one ECM
firm last year. Uh we had 15 billion
dollars of equity capital markets
activity. Uh ranked number one by far
actually relative to all the other
private equity firms out there. on the
back of just having some really
interesting assets that the market was
open for. Me
>> meaning when when you have a liquidity
event that money does just doesn't sit
in bonds, you put it actively into
equity markets.
>> No. Meaning that we're able to take our
companies public or sell down through
the public markets as an avenue of
getting liquidity versus just trying to
sell to other buyout funds or sell to
strategic buyers. Those deals have been
a bit slower and even the IPO markets
have been challenging, but we were
within a challenging IPO market. We had
the highest level of activity of all
other market participants.
>> It it's amazing. My bias is not thinking
IPO because of what we've seen the past
five years, but thinking some exit and
then just park the cash there. I I have
it exactly backwards. You exit through
the IPO market and then you distribute
the cash. Yeah.
>> To LPs.
>> Exactly. Our biggest exit last year
globally as a group was a company called
Galerma which is a European um medical
aesthetics business uh providing medical
aesthetic products including things like
Botox and you know that have been on the
[snorts] rise and you know completely
uncorrelated to AI thislocation uh and
and an investment that did extremely
well for us um in total over the last
two or three years since we took it
public we've realized something like $
24 billion of distrib contributions from
that single investment. Last year alone,
we sold over $8 billion um in in one
single trunch, which was the largest
transaction ever completed in the public
markets by a private equity firm. So the
the point of all this is just really to
say that in a tough market where
liquidity where people are looking for
distributions, it's nice to be
diversified globally where you're not c
tying all your liquidity proceeds to a
single strategy or a single market, but
you have exposure to multiple markets
and you're getting cash back from
different strategies to give you that
cash that you need at a time when you're
lacking distributions from other parts
of your portfolio.
>> Really fascinating. So let's talk a
little bit about the state of
alternatives and markets uh in the
current environment. You you mentioned
artificial intelligence, energy
transition, healthcare digitalization.
What has you most excited in Asia over
the coming decade?
>> I think uh in Asia, as we were
[clears throat] touching on a little
earlier, there's a couple of big themes
uh that we're excited about. One is this
sort of capex super cycle uh which is
feeding through the Asian supply chain.
um you know when you're talking about
building data [clears throat] centers or
uh semiconductor uh memory chips and so
on there's a whole supply chain that
feeds into that whether it's the cooling
whether it's the grid whether it's the
capital equipment that's used to
manufacture the testing equipment uh the
services around that um so there is a a
whole supply chain uh that's seeing
elevated activity and growth uh I think
the number is something like an an
incremental $5 trillion of capex being
spent in Asia within the industrial
supply chain between now and the next
over the next 5 years.
>> Um it's growing at about 15% a year. Um
>> so you got a healthy growth um
tremendous capex spend. It's a little
bit of the picks and shovels approach to
you have this tremendous boom in AI that
you know that's feeding through. There's
knock-on effects into the supply chain
and Asia is pretty well positioned to
participate in that. You look at markets
like Korea. You look at markets like
Japan, those are probably two of the
biggest beneficiaries, certain parts of
Southeast Asia as well. Um, so we're
excited about that. Uh I think the
second big opportunity we touched on it
earlier as well is just the Japanese
buyout market and um you know the the
level of reform that you're seeing there
driving increased deal flow driving um
really what I call the excess returns
opportunities that private equity really
is is good at and should be focusing on.
um the the days of you know buying
undermanaged assets uh either either
changing the management or enhancing the
the strategy of the business in order to
to close the gap between the operating
performance of the business and the full
potential of the business. That's kind
of the traditional playbook of private
equity. It it's gotten harder to do in
parts of the market that have become
more efficient. Globally, you have a lot
of shareholder activism already. So most
public companies are already doing what
they should be doing. But in Japan,
they're a little bit still further
behind. And now you see a big push by
the Japanese authorities and political
leadership to drive efficiency in their
economy and to drive corporate
governance reforms which is trying to
close this gap between full potential
and performance. And uh as a result
there are a lot more assets being sold
either corporate devestatures take
privates or generational change
happening with founder businesses where
you're buying business and you really
see the opportunity to simplify and
improve execution. It's really about
that. It's about sort of like focusing
the business uh in fewer areas and then
improving execution on on management.
>> Let's talk about energy transition. It
feels like here in the United States,
we're sort of backing away from a lot of
alternatives. Um, Asia seems to be full
speed ahead.
>> Uh, what are you seeing as opportunities
in that space and where?
>> Uh, yeah, we see a lot of opportunities
across both Europe and Asia in the
energy transition. Uh, it's, you know,
with what's going on now in the Middle
East as well, is kind of driving home
the point that energy security is is
going to be crit even more critical in
the future. Um there is a um tremendous
technological push uh of innovation
coming out of China in terms of supply
chain for batteries for solar. Um even
areas like hydrogen um you're starting
to see a lot of very interesting scaled
up innovation there. Um we have a big
infrastructure business in Asia that
invests in the energy transition. Uh we
invest in battery storage for example.
We have a big business in Australia now.
Australia is big in this area. we expect
to see more opportunities there.
Singapore has been a leader actually in
funding the energy transition throughout
Southeast Asia. Um very forward thinking
I would say in that regard and uh and
it's it's just it's just a large
investment opportunity that ultimately
with with energy transition with climate
related concerns you know the real
catalyst here is is ultimately going to
be is is already having to be the market
forces that drive this forward. It has
to be that it's more cost competitive,
it's more cost-effective to do things
using electricity and the grid than it
is using fossil fuels. Otherwise, if
it's not more cost-effective, the market
forces aren't really at play and you're
relying on policy or you're relying on
philanthropy, um it's just harder to see
these things scale. But we're getting to
this tipping point where the cost curves
are coming down. uh the security
concerns are becoming real and uh and
when that happens then you know with
scale with volumes whether it's EV
batteries whether it's solar panels
you're starting to see the the big
uptake and and the movement in that
direction
>> we're getting a sense in the United
States that the war in Iran and the
shutting of the straight hormuz is
paradoxically accelerating the move away
from gas oil crude coal even towards
alternatives What's the perspective like
from Asia?
>> I would agree with that. I think that
the energy security is uh top of mind.
Um and uh you know certainly China has
moved very much in this direction.
They're have the largest installed base
of renewable energy. They're the largest
in investor in renewable energy globally
and uh they're moving in that direction
um probably mainly for energy security
reasons uh as well as global
competitiveness reasons. And then
eventually it also is going to come. I
mean the there is still multi-deade run
in fossil fuels for sure that's going to
play out. Uh but ultimately there's
going to be a cost issue related to
fossil fuels. And if you want to be
competitive as an economy, what's your
cost of energy? You know what is a
scarce resource? If the cost of energy
is going higher and higher versus the
other alternatives out there, if you
haven't invested in you're playing
catch-up, it will feed through to the
rest of the industrial base. And I think
this is where it's important to take a
longer term perspective and where
private equity can play a role in sort
of thinking through the next 5 10 years.
How do you make companies more
competitive? How do you drive
innovation? How do you drive um
investment in energy competitiveness and
the energy transition to help this
happen? We we haven't really talked
about India which has always felt like
it was oh two years away this is really
going to be the next powerhouse economy.
um always feels like it's on the verge.
Uh what are you seeing there? It kind of
look feels like one of the more
compelling growth stories.
>> I think I like India a lot. We're very
very bullish on India. It's been the
biggest market for us over the last 5
years of where we've invested. Um,
historically the story's been a lot
about technology investments in the tech
services industry primarily which has
been a beneficiary of of global
investment in technology and in the tech
stack uh and the migration to the cloud
that has hit a little bit of a
disruption now with what's going on with
AI but they're quickly adapting to it
and using AI tools to actually make
enterprises more competitive um and to
help diffuse AI into the enterprise
using the skills and the they have a you
know millions of of computer technology
programmers and and and and labor
available to help drive AI adoption
which is one of the things that India is
very competitive in but the bigger story
in India I think for the next 5 years is
more about the consumer and the growth
in the middle class and the one of the
big beneficiaries of the growing middle
class as you're now seeing a huge
increase now in you know it's the
largest population in the world uh 1.4
four billion people. It's also the
youngest population in the world. So the
demographics are very favorable and the
one of the big early beneficiaries that
we're starting to see on the ground in
India is the health care sector. Um
housing and healthcare, you know, the
first thing that people do when they
start to save and generate a good
income, they buy a home and then they
want to make sure their family is well
looked after uh their parents and their
children well looked after from a
healthcare standpoint. So we're seeing
strong demand for housing uh housing
finance and for healthcare which are
some of the areas that we're investing
in in India.
>> So I'm going to paraphrase a quote of
yours.
Talent is the key to unlocking outsized
returns in private equity.
You're looking at India. You're looking
in China, Japan, Korea, Europe, and the
United States.
How do you find and develop management
teams in such a broad diverse uh
selection of of regions? That sounds
like that is its own specific challenge.
>> It is. And I think one of the things
that we've learned over the years um is
the importance of being able to be what
we call an active owner in the
businesses that we buy, which has really
meant that we've really migrated
primarily to a control buyout strategy
other than in our early stage tech
strategies. But in our main strategies,
we're a buyout investor, which means we
have control. And I think having control
um enables you to really affect change
in the business and collapsees this sort
of agency problem that you see between
ownership and management and many other
markets around the world. And Asia is no
exception. We're starting to collapse
that and see that collapse in Asia
through the ownership model that the
governance model really that private
equity brings when they invest when we
invest as an industry. And as a result,
uh, as we've scaled our business over
time, um, you're starting to be able to
really develop pools of talent. So, for
example, we have 7 800 what we call
industrial advisers across globally
across EQT from different industrial um,
sectors and different sectors that we
invest in and we tap into those to come
and become what we call our
non-executive chairs or independent
non-executive chairman. So, we have a
chairman that we bring in from industry.
We usually have a CEO either existing
CEO or new CEO and then we have our deal
partner and that combination of those
three people is the governance structure
for our investments that drive the
active ownership model for our business.
We also are seeing a a bigger pool of
domestic talent now that we're able to
develop within say Japan within India um
through multiple private equitybacked
investments that we've made where you
know the same CEO for example that we've
worked with before we can work with that
same individual again um because the
model now has been tried and tested and
been around for a couple of decades. So
you're developing much deeper bench of
talent in private equity uh in Asia than
you've had in the past. And that's been
I think a key driver returns the
combination of governance through the
buyout strategy plus the talent pool
that's available. Now I
>> I have one last question before we get
to our favorites that we ask all our
guests. What do you think investors are
not either talking about or thinking
about but should be when it comes to
private equity different geographies
different regulatory policy changes what
what is getting either undernoticed or
overlooked but shouldn't
>> I think one of the really interesting
developments is what's happening in the
convergence between both public and
private markets so companies staying
private longer
>> and the sort of blurring of the lines
there how you get exposure if you're an
investor to the best businesses in the
world. Do you wait till they become
public or do you do it before they
become public? You know the historically
it was a very small minority of
institutional investors really that got
exposure to private markets. Individual
investors almost had zero. That's
changed a lot in the last few years but
it's going to change I think even more
as we move in in the coming years and
people start to participate more. The
democratization of our asset class that
people talk about I think is a big trend
related to that is the kind of blurring
of the lines between or convergence
between the secondary market and the
primary market of private equity. You
know those used to be viewed as
completely different things. You invest
in a private equity uh fund if you can't
get your money back after seven or eight
years you find someone to buy those
interests from you and that's a
secondary market. That has changed. If
you think about the public markets, when
you invest in a stock, you're buying a
secondary position. You're buying when
you buy Apple stock today, you're buying
from someone who's selling it to you.
You're buying a secondary.
>> You're not buying the IPO of Apple. That
was a primary. That happened 25 years
ago. Same things happened in private
equity is that you know all the
companies that are private, in order to
buy them, you had to buy them as a
primary through a fund that bought the
company as a private deal. Well, now we
have $3.8 8 trillion dollars of private
companies out there that are unrealized
that everybody's complaining about. Uh
that actually is the foundation of a
secondary market now in private
companies, private assets that you and I
and others can start to participate in
through the secondary market. You don't
need to find a new deal to buy. You can
buy an existing business that's
privately owned if you like it, if it's
got great return potential, if it's the
right price. It's it's another way to
get exposure to the asset class um
through these evergreen structures for
example and particularly through the
credit through the uh secondary markets
structures which is the way a lot of
institutional investors are starting to
think about it. If I want to dial up or
dial down my exposure private markets I
can use secondary structures. I don't
need to invest in a private in a private
equity fund per se. I can do that
through the secondary markets. So, let's
jump to our speed round. Starting with
who were your early mentors who helped
shape your career?
>> I was very lucky. I had a third grade
teacher that kind of took an interest in
me and kept me after school uh to help
me work on independent projects and was
like an outlet for my creativity that I
was felt was frustrated in in class.
Really amazing teacher.
>> Let's talk about books. What are some of
your favorites? What are you reading
currently? I read a great book called
why why the west rules for now which is
a sweeping history of why the industrial
revolution happened in the west and not
in Asia in the east. Uh but it talks
about how going forward that could
change and it's a if anybody's
interested in history I highly recommend
that book.
>> Really really good. Uh final two
questions. What sort of advice would you
give a recent college grad interested in
a career in either investing or private
equity?
>> Two things I would say. One is you need
to be AI native to these days. Uh which
was not the case obviously when I was
starting out. And secondly,
perseverance.
>> Don't give up. Stay in the game because
things come and go. You get knocked
down, get back up. You stay in the game
and new opportunities arise. Final
question. What do you know about the
world of private equity, private real
estate, credit, infrastructure
alternatives today might have been
useful back in the 90s when you were
really getting your legs under you? the
so-called eighth wonder of the world,
which is uh the power of compounding. Uh
if I wish I'd appreciate that a bit more
after 30 years of investing, be let
something ride for 30 years. Generally,
if it's a decent business, it'll be
worth a lot of money. Jean Eric, this
has been absolutely fascinating. Thank
you for being so generous with your
time. We have been speaking with Jean
Eric Salada, chair of the EQT group. Uh,
if you enjoy this conversation, [music]
well, check out any of the 640 we've
done over the previous 14 years. You can
find those at iTunes, Spotify,
Bloomberg, YouTube, wherever you get
your favorite podcasts. I would be
remiss if I didn't thank the Crack team
that helps put these conversations
together each week. Alexis Noriega is my
video producer. Sean Russo [music] is my
researcher. Anna Luke is our producer.
I'm Barry Roltz. You've been [music]
listening to Masters in Business on
Bloomberg Radio.